Now of course when we're building our image
we're going to need to inject a JAR file
that's been created by Spring Boot
and the nice thing about Spring Boot
it does give us an executable JAR to execute.
And I have a very simple web application,
it has a simple H2 in-memory database
so nothing sexy here.
I wanted to give you a quick code review
of this and we'll run the application
just to see it running inside the IDE
and get the build process and I'll show
the build artifact that we want to deploy
into our Docker container.
So it's a very common process I wanted
to give you a quick overview of what
we're going to be running inside
the Docker container first.
Okay I have a sample Spring Boot application here.
It is running the 1.4.2 release of Spring Boot,
1.5 is out actually right now
but this is going to be just fine for our purposes.
We just want something that's going
to go out and start up for us
and run a little Tomcat application in an executable JAR.
So I'll give you a quick tour of what's going on here.
Now if you want to know more about this application,
like I said it is a Spring Boot application,
if you go out to my website, springframework.guru,
I have a whole tutorial series on creating
a Spring Boot web application
and this is the source code from that.
So it's a six part blog post with a lot
of information on using Spring Boot
and setting up Spring Security and Thymeleaf
and all that good stuff so I step you
through everything but I want to give
you a quick overview of what's going on here.
So this is Spring Boot application,
it is running embedded Tomcat and I do have
a simple controller here.
I have two controllers, an IndexController,
returns back the Thymeleaf view of index.
A ProductController that shows some products,
I do have a simple domain class called Product,
using JPA mappings.
Now this is going to be backed by an H2
in memory database and to access data
we are going through Spring Data JPA,
using a CrudRepository and the one secret sauce
here is I have a ProductLoader to on start up
ContextRefreshedEvent looks for that
and we add in a couple of products
so we get some data preloaded in our H2 in memory database.
And we want to see a little Spring Security
so we even have Spring Security set up,
we're using an in memory authentication,
admin ADMIN, user USER.
Trying to remember what I had in the web configuration
so all this sets up for the H2 database console.
And let's see here.
No big deal here we have Thymeleaf templates,
using fragments to do a header
and we have a little product form
where we can actually add stuff into the database.
Everything is running.
So I'm looking at application properties,
everything is running defaults.
And let's take a look at the pom one more time.
And so the dependencies that we bring
in spring-boot-starter-data-jpa,
security, thymeleaf, thymeleaf security extras,
and then Spring Boot web.
Spring Boot web is what gives us the Tomcat
and we have Bootstrap and JQuery coming in
by web jars and then the H2 in memory database.
And I am going to go ahead and start it up,
but restart it here I already had it running.
So we can see Spring Boot is initializing
and it's going to start up pretty quick
so Hibernate builds our schema,
the ContextRefreshedEvent populates the schema,
now I'm going to toggle over to Chrome where I have it up,
and I can do a refresh here.
And if I wanted to see products I can see products there.
I want to sign in.
I think we said admin.
Admin admin, so now we're welcome admin.
So nothing too complex,
this I a pretty simple web application
but it's perfect for our needs,
we want to be able to deploy an executable JAR
which is exactly what this will give us for our project.
(upbeat music)